-   [Contents](. "Table of Contents")
-   [GL: Enough Time](enough-time)
-   [Previous SC: Pause, Stop, Hide](pause-stop-hide)
-   [Next SC: Interruptions](interruptions)

On this page:

-   [Intent](#intent)
-   [Benefits](#benefits)
-   [Examples](#examples)
-   [Techniques](#techniques)
-   [Key Terms](#key-terms)

Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.3: No Timing
================================================

> Success Criterion [2.2.3 No Timing](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#no-timing) (Level AAA): Timing is not an [essential](#dfn-essential) part of the event or activity presented by the content, except for non-interactive [synchronized media](#dfn-synchronized-media) and [real-time events](#dfn-real-time-event).

Intent
------

The intent of this Success Criterion is to minimize the occurrence of content that requires timed interaction. This enables people with blindness, low vision, cognitive limitations, or motor impairments to interact with content. This differs from the Level A Success Criterion in that the only exception is for real-time events.

Note

Video only, such as sign language, is covered in <a href="text-alternatives" class="guideline">Guideline 1.1</a>.

Benefits
--------

-   People with physical disabilities often need more time to react, to type and to complete activities. People with low vision need more time to locate things on screen and to read. People who are blind and using screen readers may need more time to understand screen layouts, to find information and to operate controls. People who have cognitive or language limitations need more time to read and to understand. People who are deaf and communicate in sign language may need more time to read information printed in text (which may be a second language for some).
-   In circumstances where a sign-language interpreter may be relating audio content to a user who is deaf, control over time limits is also important.

Examples
--------

-   **A test is designed so that time to complete the test does not affect the scoring**

    Rather than calibrating an on-line test using a time limit, the test is calibrated based on scores when users have no time limits.

-   **A game is designed so that users take turns rather than competing in real-time**

    One party can pause the game without invalidating the competitive aspect of it.

Techniques
----------

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see [Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria](understanding-techniques), particularly the "Other Techniques" section.

### Sufficient Techniques

1.  <a href="https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G5" class="general">G5: Allowing users to complete an activity without any time limit</a>

Key Terms
---------

audio

the technology of sound reproduction

Note

Audio can be created synthetically (including speech synthesis), recorded from real world sounds, or both.

essential

if removed, would fundamentally change the information or functionality of the content, **and** information and functionality cannot be achieved in another way that would conform

media alternative for text

media that presents no more information than is already presented in text (directly or via text alternatives)

Note

A media alternative for text is provided for those who benefit from alternate representations of text. Media alternatives for text may be audio-only, video-only (including sign-language video), or audio-video.

real-time event

event that a) occurs at the same time as the viewing and b) is not completely generated by the content

A Webcast of a live performance (occurs at the same time as the viewing and is not prerecorded).

An on-line auction with people bidding (occurs at the same time as the viewing).

Live humans interacting in a virtual world using avatars (is not completely generated by the content and occurs at the same time as the viewing).

synchronized media

[audio](#dfn-audio) or [video](#dfn-video) synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a [media alternative for text](#dfn-media-alternative-for-text) that is clearly labeled as such

video

the technology of moving or sequenced pictures or images

Note

Video can be made up of animated or photographic images, or both.
