-   [Contents](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/#techniques "Table of Contents")
-   [Intro](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/#introduction "Introduction to Techniques")
-   [Previous Technique: F47](F47)
-   [Next Technique: F49](F49)

On this page:

-   [Important Information about Techniques](#important-information)
-   [Applicability](#applicability)
-   [Description](#description)
-   [Examples](#examples)
-   [Related Techniques](#related)
-   [Tests](#tests)

Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to using the pre element to markup tabular information
=============================================================================================

Important Information about Techniques
--------------------------------------

See [Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/understanding-techniques) for important information about the usage of these informative techniques and how they relate to the normative WCAG 2.1 success criteria. The Applicability section explains the scope of the technique, and the presence of techniques for a specific technology does not imply that the technology can be used in all situations to create content that meets WCAG 2.1.

Applicability
-------------

HTML and XHTML

This technique relates to [Success Criterion 1.3.1: Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/info-and-relationships) (Failure).

Description
-----------

This document describes a failure caused by use of the HTML pre element to markup tabular information. The pre element preserves only visual formatting. If the pre element is used to markup tabular information, the visually implied logical relationships between the table cells and the headers are lost if the user cannot see the screen or if the visual presentation changes significantly.

Instead, the HTML table element is intended to present tabular data. Assistive technologies use the structure of an HTML table to present data to the user in a logical manner. This structure is not available when using the pre element.

Examples
--------

### Example 1: A schedule formatted with tabs between columns

     <pre>
        Monday  Tuesday Wednesday   Thursday    Friday
     8:00-
     9:00   Meet with Sam               
     9:00-
     10:00          Dr. Williams    Sam again   Leave for San Antonio
     </pre>

### Example 2: Election results displayed using preformatted text

     <pre>
       CIRCUIT COURT JUDGE BRANCH 3
                                                      W
                                                       R
                                              M R E     I
                                               A . L     T
                                         M L    R   B     E
                                          I A    Y   E     -
                                           K N        R     I
                                            E G        T     N
                                           -----   -----   -----
    0001 TOWN OF ALBION WDS 1-2               22      99       0
    0002 TOWN OF BERRY WDS 1-2                52     178       0
    0003 TOWN OF BLACK EARTH                  16      49       0
    0004 TOWN OF BLOOMING GROVE WDS 1-3       44     125       0
    0005 TOWN OF BLUE MOUNDS                  33     117       0
    0006 TOWN OF BRISTOL WDS 1-3             139     639       1
    0007 TOWN OF BURKE WDS 1-4                80     300       0
    0008 TOWN OF CHRISTIANA WDS 1-2           22      50       0

     </pre>

Related Techniques
------------------

-   [H51: Using table markup to present tabular information](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H51)

Tests
-----

### Procedure

1.  Check to see if the pre element is used
2.  For each occurrence of the pre element, check whether the enclosed information is tabular.

### Expected Results

-   If check \#2 is true, then this failure condition applies and the content fails the Success Criterion.
