-   [Contents](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/#techniques "Table of Contents")
-   [Intro](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/#introduction "Introduction to Techniques")
-   [Previous Technique: F79](F79)
-   [Next Technique: F81](F81)

On this page:

-   [Important Information about Techniques](#important-information)
-   [Applicability](#applicability)
-   [Description](#description)
-   [Examples](#examples)
-   [Tests](#tests)

Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.4 when text-based form controls do not resize when visually rendered text is resized up to 200%
================================================================================================================================

Important Information about Techniques
--------------------------------------

See [Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/understanding-techniques) for important information about the usage of these informative techniques and how they relate to the normative WCAG 2.1 success criteria. The Applicability section explains the scope of the technique, and the presence of techniques for a specific technology does not imply that the technology can be used in all situations to create content that meets WCAG 2.1.

Applicability
-------------

HTML, XHTML, and CSS

This technique relates to [Success Criterion 1.4.4: Resize text](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/resize-text) (Failure).

Description
-----------

The objective of this failure condition is to describe a problem that occurs when changing the size of text does not cause the text-based form controls to resize accordingly. This means that the user may have difficulty entering text and being able to read what they have entered because the text is not displayed at the text size required by the user.

Text-based form controls include input boxes (text and textarea) as well as buttons.

Examples
--------

### Example 1: A Contact Form

A Contact Us form has some introductory information and then form controls for users to enter their first name, last name, telephone number and email address. The heading, introductory text and form control labels have been implemented in a scalable way but the form controls themselves have not.

The XHTML component:

     <h1>Contact Us</h1>
     <p>Please provide us with your details and we will contact you as soon as we can. Note that all of the form fields are required.</p>
     <label for="fname">First Name</label><input type="text" name="fname" id="fname" /><br />
     <label for="lname">Last Name</label><input type="text" name="lname" id="lname" /><br />
     <label for="phone">Telephone</label><input type="text" name="phone" id="phone" /><br />
     <label for="email">Email</label><input type="text" name="email" id="email" /><br />
     <input type="submit" name="Submit" value="Submit" id="Submit" />

The CSS component:

     h1 { font-size: 2em; }
     p, label { font-size: 1em; }
     input {font-size: 12pt}

Tests
-----

### Procedure

1.  Enter some text into text-based form controls that receive user entered text.
2.  Increase the text size of the content by 200%.
3.  Check that the text in text-based form controls has increased by 200%.

### Expected Results

-   If check \#3 is false, then the failure condition applies and the content fails these Success Criteria.
